.TH x11clone 1
.SH NAME
x11clone \- view and interact with another X11 server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B x11clone
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ serverDisplay ]
.br
.B x11clone xinitcmd
[
.RI [ client ]
.RI options
\&\.\|.\|. ] [
.B \-\^\-
.RI [ server ]
.RI [ serverDisplay ]
.RI options
\&.\|.\|. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B x11clone
is a tool which connects two independent X11 displays. It retrieves
the image from the "server display" and displays it in an application
window, created on the "client display". Keyboard and mouse events in
the application window are transferred to the "server display". This
allows you to view and interact with another X11 session.

.B x11clone
is based on TigerVNC and is a fusion between
.B x0vncserver
and
.B vncviewer.
In some cases, documentation, log messages etc refers to the "server"
and "client", meaning the components of
.B x11clone
connected to the "server display" and "client display".

In the 1st form, x11clone tries to connect to "serverDisplay", if specified.

In the 2nd form, the "serverDisplay" defaults to :0. If the connection
to "serverDisplay" fails, x11clone tries to start a new Xserver
instance using the specified command (typically xinit or startx).

.SH POPUP MENU
The application has a popup menu containing entries which perform various actions.
It is usually brought up by pressing F8, but this can be configured with the
MenuKey parameter.  Actions which the popup menu can perform include:
.RS 2
.IP * 2
switching in and out of full-screen mode
.IP *
quitting the application
.IP *
generating key events, e.g. sending ctrl-alt-del
.IP *
accessing the options dialog and various other dialogs
.RE
.PP
By default, key presses in the popup menu get sent to the server and
dismiss the popup.  So to get an F8 through simply press it twice.
.
.SH FULL SCREEN MODE
A full-screen mode is supported.  This is particularly useful when connecting
to a server display which is the same size as your local one. If the server
display is bigger, you can scroll by bumping the mouse against the edge of the
screen.

.SH OPTIONS (PARAMETERS)
You can get a list of parameters by giving \fB\-h\fP as a command-line option
to x11clone.  Parameters can be turned on with -\fIparam\fP or off with
-\fIparam\fP=0.  Parameters which take a value can be specified as
-\fIparam\fP \fIvalue\fP.  Other valid forms are \fIparam\fP\fB=\fP\fIvalue\fP
-\fIparam\fP=\fIvalue\fP --\fIparam\fP=\fIvalue\fP.  Parameter names are
case-insensitive.

Many of the parameters can also be set graphically via the options dialog box.
This can be accessed from the popup menu or from the "Connection details"
dialog box.
.
.TP
.B -ServerGeometry
This option specifies the screen area to show.  The
format is
.B \fIwidth\fPx\fIheight\fP+\fIxoffset\fP+\fIyoffset\fP
, where `+' signs can be replaced with `\-' signs to specify offsets from the
right and/or from the bottom of the screen.  Offsets are optional, +0+0 is
assumed by default (top left corner).  If the argument is empty, the entire screen
is shown.
.
.TP
.B -FrameRate
The maximum number of updates per second sent to the client.
.
.TP
.B -MaxIdleTime
Terminate after \fIN\fP seconds of user inactivity.  Default is 0.
.
.TP
.B \-MaxCutText \fIbytes\fP
The maximum size of a clipboard update that will be accepted from a client.
Default is \fB262144\fP.
.
.TP
.B -RemapKeys
Comma-separated list of incoming keysyms to remap.  Mappings are expressed as
two hex values, prefixed by \fB0x\fP, and separated by \fB->\fP (`dash' and
`greater than' characters).
.
.TP
.B \-Log \fIlogname\fP:\fIdest\fP:\fIlevel\fP
Configures the debug log settings.  \fIdest\fP can currently be \fBstderr\fP or
\fBstdout\fP, and \fIlevel\fP is between 0 and 100, 100 meaning most verbose
output.  \fIlogname\fP is usually \fB*\fP meaning all, but you can target a
specific source file if you know the name of its "LogWriter".  Default is
\fB*:stderr:20,XDesktop:stderr:30,CConn:stderr:30\fP.
.
.TP
.B -RawKeyboard
Send keyboard events straight through and avoid mapping them to the current
keyboard layout. This effectively makes the keyboard behave according to the
layout configured on the server instead of the layout configured on the
client. Default is on.
.
.TP
.B -MaxProcessorUsage
Maximum percentage of CPU time to be consumed when polling the
screen.  Default is 35.
.
.TP
.B  -PollingCycle
Milliseconds per one polling cycle.  Actual interval may be dynamically
adjusted to satisfy \fBMaxProcessorUsage\fP setting.  Default is 30.
.
.B -UseSHM
Use MIT-SHM extension if available.  Using that extension accelerates reading
the screen.  Default is on.
.
.TP
.B \-FullscreenSystemKeys
Pass special keys (like Alt+Tab) directly to the server when in full-screen
mode.
.
.TP
.B \-MenuKey \fIkeysym-name\fP
This option specifies the key which brings up the popup menu. The currently
supported list is: F1, F2, F3, F4, F5, F6, F7, F8, F9, F10, F11, F12, Pause,
Scroll_Lock, Escape, Insert, Delete, Home, Page_Up, Page_Down). Default is F8.
.
.TP
.B \-SendPrimary
Send the primary selection to the server as well as the clipboard
selection. Default is on.
.
.TP
.B \-SendClipboard
Send clipboard changes to the server. Default is on.
.
.TP
.B \-SetPrimary
Set the primary selection as well as the clipboard selection.
Default is on.
.TP
.B \-AcceptClipboard
Accept clipboard changes from the server. Default is on.
.
.TP
.B \-ViewOnly
Specifies that no keyboard or mouse events should be sent to the server.
Useful if you want to view a desktop without interfering.
.TP
.B \-ServerResize
Dynamically resize the server display as the size of the client window
changes.
.
.TP
.B \-ClientGeometry \fIgeometry\fP
Standard X position and sizing specification.
.
.TP
.B \-DesktopSize \fIwidth\fPx\fIheight\fP
Reconfigure server display to specified desktop size on connect (if
possible).
.TP
.B \-FullScreenAllMonitors
Use all local monitors and not just the current one when switching to
full-screen mode.
.
.TP
.B \-FullScreen
Start in full-screen mode.
.
.TP
.B \-Maximize
Maximize viewer window.
.
.TP
.B \-AlertOnFatalError
Display a dialog with any fatal error before exiting. Default is on.
.
.TP
.B \-DotWhenNoCursor
Show the dot cursor when the server sends an invisible cursor. Default is off.
.
.TP
.B \-Check
Return true if it is possible to connect to server display.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B "x11clone :0"
Connect to existing server display ":0"
.
.TP
.B "x11clone startx /usr/bin/xterm -- /usr/bin/Xvfb :50 -screen 0 1024x768x24"
If no server is running on ":50", start a new instance using the specified
"startx" command line. Then, connect to server display ":50".
.
.SH SEE ALSO
http://www.tigervnc.org

.SH AUTHOR
Peter Astrand <astrand@cendio.se> for Cendio AB

The TigerVNC Team

VNC was originally developed by the RealVNC team while at Olivetti
Research Ltd / AT&T Laboratories Cambridge.  TightVNC additions were
implemented by Constantin Kaplinsky. Many other people have since
participated in development, testing and support.
